Umbraco UIBuilder patches & minor versions update (#5873)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 13/umbraco-ui-builder/collections/retrieve-child-collections.md

---

> description: Configuring **one-to-many** relationships in Umbraco UI Builder, the backoffice UI builder for Umbraco.

Reviewer: This is copied from the other page, so needs adjusting to this one.

Author: Updated

---

# Retrieve Child Collections

> Retrieving child collections in **one-to-many** relationships with UI Builder, where one parent entity of a collection is associated with multiple entities from another, can be achieved with the support of child repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieving child collections in **one-to-many** relationships with UI Builder, can be achieved with the support of child repositories. One-to-many relations are where one parent entity of a collection is associated with multiple entities from another, 
```

> Retrieving child collections in **one-to-many** relationships with UI Builder, can be achieved with the support of child repositories. One-to-many relations are where one parent entity of a collection is associated with multiple entities from another, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Retrieving child collections in **one-to-many** relationships with UI Builder, can be achieved with the support of child repositories. One-to-many relations are where one parent entity of a collection is associated with multiple entities from another.
```

to retrieve the child collection entities, without fetching the details of the parent.

## Models Representation

> The Poco models would look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The models would look like this:
```

"Poco" probably isn't necessary, and would need defining.

Author: Updated

```csharp
[TableName("Person")]
[PrimaryKey("Id")]
public class Person
{
    [PrimaryKeyColumn]
    public int Id { get; set; }

    public string Name { get; set; }

    public string Email { get; set; }
}
```

```csharp

> [TableName("ChildPerson")]

Reviewer: Can we come up with a more real-world example than "child person"?

Author: Switched to a model called `StudentProjects`.

[TableName("StudentProjects")]
[PrimaryKey("Id")]
public class StudentProject
{
    [PrimaryKeyColumn]
    public int Id { get; set; }

    public string Name { get; set; }

    public int StudentId { get; set; }
}
```

## Child Repositories

> The concept of child repository will allow you to use the new methods of `IRepositoryFactory` to create child repository instances and use them as any other repository configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create child repository instances via the `IRepositoryFactory` and use them to retrieve information from the child collection.
```
